---
weight: 22

bookFlatSection: false

bookCollapseSection: false

bookToc: true

title: "6.22 口语话题"
---

# 口语话题

2023 年 9-12 月口语题库

（完整版）1 / 33
Topic Pool——Part One（2023.09-12）
注：红色为必备话题；蓝色为本季新题；黑色为保留旧题。

## Study

1. Do you work or are you a student?

   I am working now. I am a programmer.

2. What subject are you studying?

学生问题

3. Why did you choose that subject?

学生问题

4. What would you like to do in the future?

I have always wanted to be a programmer, I like this industry very much, I can use the program to solve some problems in life, such as check-in, to improve my work efficiency.

5. What are the most popular subjects in China?

I think the it industry is very popular, many of my classmates are in this industry, there are many young people, and the job is relatively high

6. Do you think it’s important to choose a subject you like?

Yes, I think this is very important. The subjects you like can make you more interested and spend more time studying. After all, interest is the best teacher.

7. Are you looking forward to working?

I'm working now, I'm a programmer now.

8. Do you like your subject? (Why? / Why not?)

学生问题.

9. Do you prefer to study in the mornings or in the afternoons?

I generally like to study in the morning. The air in the morning is better, my brain is clearer, and I feel more energetic.

10. Is your subject interesting to you?

学生问题.

11. Is there any kind of technology you can use in study?

Both computers and mobile phones can be used. It is very convenient to search for information online. Today’s AI can also be used in learning.

12. What kind of learning method helps you?

The method of taking notes is very useful to me. I will write down some knowledge that is easy to forget or difficult to understand in my notes, and I often take these notes out for review. This learning method is very useful to me.

13. How many hours a week do you study for?

It’s hard to count. My commute time is relatively long on weekends. I will use my commute time to read e-books, and I will spend about 6 hours studying on weekends.

14. Is there any difference between the study life of you and your parents?

In my parents' time, technology was not as developed as it is now, and their study life were relatively boring. Now that technology is developed, we can learn through the Internet, with videos and audios, and our learning life is very rich.

## Work

1. What work do you do?

I am a back-end programmer, and my main job is to develop new features and fix bugs.

2. Why did you choose to do that type of job?

I studied computer science in college and I was very interested in it. I started working in this job after graduation. I am very happy and enjoy this job.

3. Do you like your job?

I like my current job very much, I think it interesting. I can develop many small functions to improve my work efficiency, such as automatic check-in program.

4. Do you miss being a student?

Yes, one of the main reasons why I miss my school days is that I didn’t make good use of my time to study, so I must make good use of the time I have now.

5. Is it very interesting?

....

6. Is there any kind of technology you use at work?

Internet search technology can easily help me find what I need, including current AI technology, which is very smart and very helpful for work.

7. Can you manage your time well when you work?

I usually make a todo list, which can effectively help me manage my time and let me know which things are more important and when to do them.

8. Who helps you most at work?

My colleagues are the most helpful to me. They often help me solve some difficult problems and comfort me when I am in a bad mood. I am very grateful to them.

9. How many hours a week do you work for?

40 hours a week, we work 8 hours a day and rarely work overtime.

## Hometown

1. Has your hometown changed much these years?

My hometown has changed a lot. In recent years, railways have been built in my hometown, transportation has become more convenient, and the economy has improved. Many families have bought cars.

2. Is that a big city or a small place?

It is a small place with a population of about three hundred thousand, and it is a famous historical and cultural city. In addition, there is also a high-speed rail, and the transportation is very convenient.

3. How long have you been living here?

I lived there for about fifteen years, and I didn't leave my hometown until I went to college. The memory of being there is still unforgettable.

4. For you, what benefits are there living in a big city?

Big cities have convenient transportation, more job opportunities, developed medical systems, and many entertainment activities, which are very suitable for young people.

5. Is there anything you dislike about it?

There are too many people in big cities. Although transportation is convenient, they are prone to traffic jams. The cost of living in big cities is relatively high.

6. What do you like most about your hometown?

The environment in my hometown is very good, with mountains, water, and good air. When you have time, you can go boating, fishing, and barbecue with friends. Life is very pleasant.

7. Where in your country do you live?

I live in Beijing, the capital of our country. It is a famous historical city with many historical buildings, such as the Great Wall and the Forbidden City. It is very suitable for tourism.

## Accommodation

1. Are the transport facilities in your city very good?

The transportation where I live is very convenient. If you go to a place, you can get there by bus or subway. There are also high-speed rail and airports in the city.

2. Which room does your family spend most of the time in?

Our family spends a lot of time in the living room. The living room is relatively large, making it convenient for the whole family to sit together. There is also a TV in the living room, we can watch TV and communicate together.

3. Do you live in a house or a flat?

I live in an flat, I share it with others.

4. Do you plan to live here for a long time?

Yes, I plan to live here for a long time. I have lived here for more than three years. I think the environment here is very good, and I don’t like moving. I think moving is very troublesome.

5. Do you live alone or with your family?

I live alone now.

6. How long have you lived there?

I have lived here for more than three years. I think the environment here is very good, and I don’t like moving. I think moving is very troublesome.

7. What do you usually do in your house/flat/room?

I basically only stay in the flat all day on weekends. When I'm bored, I watch movies and soap operas to kill time, and sometimes I read books.

8. Which is your favourite room in your home?

I like my study best. It has good light and environment, and there are some green plants in it. Every time I enter the study, I feel very good, which makes me read and work more efficiently.

9. What's the difference between where you are living now and where you lived in the past? (If you want to say you have not lived elsewhere)

The place I live now is larger and has a better environment than where I lived in the past. When I first graduated, my salary was relatively low and the place I lived in was not very good.

10. What can you see when you look out the window of your room?

We saw the square in the community. There were many elderly people exercising there in the morning, and there were many parents playing with their children in the evening.

11. Would you be willing to live in the countryside in the future?

After I retire, I may go to live in a countryside. I think the rural environment is very good. I can find a place with mountains and water to retire, where I can grow flowers and fish. It is very happy.

## The area you live in

1. Do you like the area that you live in now?

Yes, I like where I live very much. It is very quiet, the transportation is very convenient, and the neighbors are very friendly. I have lived here for more than three years.

2. Do you think the area you live in now is suitable for people of all ages?

Yes, it is suitable for people of all ages. My neighbors have people of all ages. They are all very friendly and very happy living in the community.

3. Are people in your area friendly?

I think they are all very friendly, and everyone will help each other with anything. You can see that vehicles on the road will give way to pedestrians, and neighbors will help each other.

4. How has your area changed in recent years?

There are no major changes, just two subway lines have been built, making travel more convenient.

5. Do you know any famous people in your area?

My former company boss Pony Ma, he is the boss of Tencent and is very famous in my area and even across the country.

6. Where do you like to go in your area?

I like to go to the Forbidden City very much. The Forbidden City has a history of more than 500 years and is very famous in the world. Especially when it snows, the Forbidden City is very beautiful.

## Fishing

1. Do you like eating fish?

I don't like to eat fish. I think there are too many fish bones and it is troublesome to eat, I rarely buy fish at home.

2. Is fishing popular in your country?

Fishing is a very popular activity in my country and it is something that people of all ages can enjoy. It is a relatively simple activity that everyone can afford.

3. Have you ever been to a place where there are lots of fish around you?

My uncle has a fishing ground, and sometimes I go fishing there when I go home, there are many fish in the fishing ground and I can catch a lot of fish.

4. Have you seen any movies featuring lots of fish?

No, I don’t remember much. The types of movies I usually see the most are action movies and comedies. Maybe there are a lot of fish in environmental movies.

5. Why do some people like fishing?


6. Where can you see fish?

## Geography

1. Have you ever studied geography at school?
2. Do you like geography?
3. Do you want to travel to a country because of its geographical conditions?
4. Do you want to be a geography teacher?
5. Do you think geography is useful?

## Cinema

1. Did you often go to the cinema when you were a child?
2. Do you often go to the cinema with your friends?
3. Do you still like the same kind of movie which you liked when you were a child?
4. What genres of films do you like?
5. Do you think going to the cinema is a good way to spend time with friends?

## Coffee or tea

1. Do you like to drink coffee or tea?
2. How often do drink coffee or tea?
3. Do Chinese people like to drink coffee or tea?
4. Do you prefer to use tea or coffee to serve your guests?
5. When was the last time you drank coffee or tea?

## Musical instruments

1. Do you know how to play a musical instrument?

I can play a little guitar, which was taught by my roommate when I was in college. I think if I have the opportunity in the future, I will learn it again.

2. Do you think students should learn to play musical instruments at school?

Yes, I think it is very useful for students to learn an instrument at school. Learning musical instruments can not only promote their development in all aspects, but also reduce academic pressure.
Yes, I think it is very useful for svatudents to learn an instrument at school. Learning musical instruments can not only promote their development in all aspects, but also reduce academic pressure.

3. Have you taken any classes on musical instruments in school?

There were no musical instrument classes in my primary school and secondary school, but I didn't had the opportunity to take musical instrument classes until I went to college.

4. Which musical instrument do you like?

I like guitar. I saw guitar playing on TV when I was a kid and I liked it very much, but I didn’t have the opportunity to learn it at that time.

5. How easy would it be to learn to play a musical instrument without a teacher?

## Robots

1. How do robots affect our lives?
2. Are you interested in robots?
3. Did you like any films about robots when you were a child?
4. Do you use robots in daily life?
5. Will you feel comfortable if you are on a car driven by a robot?

## Noise

1. Do you like to stay in a noisy place?
2. Are there any quiet places in your city?
3. Do people have the right to make noise?
4. Do you like loud music?

## Running

1. Do you like running?
2. Where do you run?
3. Which places do you think are perfect for running?
4. Do you think running is a good way to stay healthy?

## Chatting

1. Do you often chat with friends?
2. Do you prefer to chat online or face to face?
3. Do you prefer group chat and individual chat?
4. What will you do if you have disagreement with others?

## Helping others

1. Do you usually help people around you?
2. How do you help people around you?
3. Do your parents teach you how to help others?
4. What have you done to help the elderly?

## Maps

1. How often do you use maps on your phone?
2. Are you good at using maps?
3. Are there any maps in your home?

## Clothes

1. How much time do you spend in choosing clothes every day?
2. Do you prefer casual clothes or smart clothes?
3. Did you choose your own clothes when you were young?

## Gifts

1. What kinds of gifts do you usually like receiving
2. Are you good at choosing gifts?
3. Have you ever given a person a gift you made yourself?
4. What do you consider when choosing a gift?

## Transport

1. How do you go to work/school?
2. Is driving to work popular in your country?
3. Do you think people will drive more in the future?

## Riding bikes

1. Did you ride a bike when you were young?
2. Did/Do you go to school by bike?
3. Will you choose to ride a bike if you go out these days?

## Ice cream

1. Do you like eating ice cream?
2. Did you eat ice cream when you were a child?
3. Are there any shops selling ice cream near the place where you live?
4. Can you make ice cream by yourself?

## Concentration

1. Could you stay focused in class when you were a child?
2. What do you do to help you concentrate?
3. Is it difficult for you to stay focused on something?
4. When do you need to be focused?

## Fixing things

1. Can you fix things?
2. What kinds of things can you fix?
3. Have you ever asked people to teach you how to fix things?
4. Do you think fixing things is a necessary skill?

## Friends

1. How important are friends to you?
2. Where do you often meet?
3. What do you usually do with your friends?
4. Do you have many friends?

## Rainy days

1. Do you like rainy days?
2. Does it rain much in your city?
3. Would you like to live in a dry or wet place?
4. Have you cancel any plans because of rain?

## Bags

1. Do you usually carry a bag?
2. What kinds of bags do you use when travelling?
3. Do you often change bags?
4. Did you use a backpack when you were a child?
5. Would you give others bags as gifts?

## Teachers

1. Do you remember your teachers from primary school?
2. Do you have a favorite teacher?
3. Did you want to be a teacher when you were young?
4. What kinds of teacher do you prefer?

## Wild animals

1. Are there any wild animals in your country?

2. Have you ever been to a zoo or a safari park?

3. What is the animal you would like to see in the wild?

4. Are there TV programs about wild animals in your country?

## Languages

1. What languages do you speak?

2. Have you ever learnt any foreign languages in school?

3. Do you think it's difficult to learn a new language?

4. Will you learn another language in the future?

5. Why do people learn foreign languages?

## Ambition and dream

1. Do you think you are an ambitious person?

2. What was your dream when you were a child?

3. What is your main ambition in life now?

4. Are you the kind of person who never gives up on dreams?

## Day off

1. Do you usually spend your day off with parents or friends?

2. What do you often do on your days off?

3. When was the last time you had a few days off?

4. What would you like to do if you had a day off tomorrow?

## Keeping healthy

1. How do you keep healthy?

2. What is your favorite sport?

3. Are there any classes about keeping healthy in your school?

4. Do you have any advice on keeping healthy for youngsters?

## Favourite day

1. Which day is your favourite in a week?

2. How do you usually spend your time on this day?

3. Which day is your least favourite in a week?

4. Is there anything you do every day?

## The city you live in

1. What city do you live in?

2. Do you like this city? Why?

3. How long have you lived in this city?

4. Are there any big changes in this city?

5. Is this city your permanent residence?

# Part Two (2023.09-12)

(蓝色为本季新题，黑色为保留旧题)

## People: (11)

Describe a foreigner who can speak Chinese well.

Describe a person you know who likes to cook for others.

Describe a famous athlete you know.

Describe an interesting person you never met but you would like to know more about him/her.

Describe a successful business person you admire.

Describe a person you study with who is successful in his/her life.

Describe a person who has interesting ideas or opinions

Describe someone you know who has recently moved to a new place.

Describe someone living in your area who often helps others.

Describe a popular person.

Describe a person you know who is from a different culture.

## Object:（具体 6）

Describe a photo that makes you happy.

Describe a painting/drawing you enjoy watching.

Describe a piece of clothing you wear most often.

Describe an invention that is useful in your daily life.

Describe a book you have read many times.

Describe a piece of technology you own that you feel difficult to use.

## （抽象 9）

Describe a rule that is important in your school or at work.

Describe one area of science (medicine, physics and etc.) that sounds interesting to you.

Describe a good advertisement that you think is useful.

Describe a historical period you want to know more about.

Describe a movie you watched recently that you felt disappointed about.

Describe a job you are interested in.

Describe a sport you enjoy watching.

Describe a water sport you would like to try in the future.

Describe a piece of good news that you heard about someone you know well.

## Place: (7)

Describe a place in your country that you think is interesting

Describe a park or garden in your city.

Describe a beautiful city you have visited.

Describe a new shop that recently opened in your city/town.

Describe a house that you would like to have.

Describe a place you went to where there are a lot of people.

Describe a place far away from your home and you want to visit it in the future.

## Event: (21)

1. Describe a time when you had a problem with using the computer.

Last month, when I was using my computer, I found that the screen was always black and the keyboard didn't work. So I used my mobile phone to search for solutions online. I tried restarting the computer but it didn't solve the problem. So, I took my computer and went out to find a repair. The owner of the repair shop checked it and told me that it might be caused by the computer battery. The battery was too old and the battery needed to be replaced. Finally, the computer was fine after replacing
the battery.

2. Describe a time when you waited a long time for a nice thing.

When I was a kid, I saw my neighbor’s kids playing with robot toys. I wanted one too, but I didn’t have the money to buy one. When my parents found out, they said they would buy one if I could get 90 points on the next math test, but My math score was very poor at that time, I could only get 50-70 points, but in order to have a robot toy, I got up very early every day to study. Although my math score was only 80 points during the exam, my dad still bought a robot to me and encouraged me to study
hard.

3. Describe a time when something changed your life in a good way.

When I was in primary school, my academic performance was not good. I had a classmate who always had very good academic performance. One day I asked him how he managed to get high scores in exams. He told me the importance of taking notes. Write down the knowledge that are easy to understand and forget in your notes, and review them frequently so that you can remember these knowledge deeply. After I learned this method, my grades improved significantly. This is really a good way to improve
study.

4. Describe an activity you did that made you feel tired.

Last summer, I was bored at home, and my friend asked me to go hiking with him. I rarely climb mountains. The altitude of the mountain we climbed that time was not very high, but the road was very rugged. I climbed very hard. Although I wanted to give up, I still persisted. When I climbed to the top of the mountain, I found that the scenery was very good. We took a lot of photos and saw the sunset. Although this activity was tired, I felt very happy.

5. Describe a party you enjoyed.

Last summer, I was bored at home, and my friend asked me to go to a birthday party with him. When I got there, I found that many old classmates were there, including high school and primary school classmates. There were some people we hadn’t seen for many years. We asked each other how we were doing recently, took a lot of photos, and ate birthday cakes together. We made sure to get together more often in the future. This is really a very enjoyable party.

6. Describe a bad service you received in a restaurant or shop.

7. Describe a piece of good advice that you gave to someone.

8. Describe a difficult task that you completed at work/study and you felt proud of the experience.

9. Describe an exciting activity you did with others.

10. Describe a long car journey you went on.

11. Describe a happy experience in your childhood.

12. Describe an occasion when you lost your way.

13. Describe an occasion when you spent time with a young child.

14. Describe a game you played in your childhood.

15. Describe a time when you had to talk to a group of people.

16. Describe an exciting adventure you would like to go on.

17. Describe an occasion when you got incorrect information.

18. Describe a traditional celebration in your country that you enjoy.

19. Describe a time when you saved money to buy an expensive gift for others.

20. Describe an important decision you made in life.

21. Describe an activity you enjoyed in your free time when you were young.

注：二、三部分具体题卡如下

# Part Two & Part Three

## People:

1. Describe a foreigner who can speak Chinese well.

2. Describe a person you know who likes to cook for others.

3. Describe a famous athlete you know.

4. Describe an interesting person you never met but you would like to know more about him/her.

5. Describe a successful business person you admire.

6. Describe a person you study with who is successful in his/her life.

7. Describe a person who has interesting ideas or opinions

8. Describe someone you know who has recently moved to a new place.

9. Describe someone living in your area who often helps others.

10. Describe a popular person.

11. Describe a person you know who is from a different culture.

12. Describe a foreigner who can speak Chinese well.
    You should say:
    + Who he/she is
    + How you know him/her
    + Why he/she can speak Chinese well
    + And explain how you feel about this person

## Part 3

1. When do students in China start to learn foreign languages?

2. What qualities should a language teacher have?

3. Do you have any techniques in learning languages?

4. Compared with adults, do you think it is faster for children to learn languages?

5. How does technology influence language learning?
6. Describe a person you know who likes to cook for others.
   You should say:
    + Who this person is
    + What he/she likes to cook
    + How this person learned to cook
    + And explain why this person likes to cook for others.

## Part 3

1. What do we need to prepare when we cook?
2. Do you agree that food is an important part of Chinese festivals?
3. Should children learn cooking in school?
4. Do you think cooking should be a compulsory or an elective course at school? Why?
5. Describe a famous athlete you know.
   You should say:
    + Who he/she is
    + How you knew him/her
    + What he/she has achieved
    + And explain why he/she is famous

## Part 3

1. What kinds of exercises do Chinese people like to do?

2. What characteristics do you think an athlete should have?

4. Do you think PE classes should be replaced by academic classes?

4. How can people know whether a child has talent for sports?

5. Describe an interesting person you never met but you would like to know more about him/her.
   You should say:
    + Who this person is
    + How you knew him/her
    + Why you think he/she is interesting
    + And explain how you feel about this person

## Part 3

1. Compared with the countryside, do you think big cities are more suitable for children?

2. Do you think people nowadays prefer online talking to face-to-face talk?

3. Do you think it is easier for people in cities to feel lonely than those living in the countryside?

4. Where and how can people get to know new acquaintances?

5. Describe a successful business person you admire.
   You should say:
    + Who this person is
    + What kind of business this person does
    + Why this person are successful
    + And explain why you admire this person

## Part 3

1. Are there many family businesses in your country?

2. What are the advantages of working in a family business?

3. What do you think is the most important quality of an employee?

4. Is it easy for a business to be successful without affecting the environment?

5. Do happy employees help to run a company?

6. Describe a person you study with who is successful in his/her life.
   You should say:
    + Who this person is
    + How you knew him/her
    + What makes him/her successful
    + And explain how you feel about this person

## Part 3

1. Do you think a successful person can be popular at the same time?

2. Which one is more important? Being popular or having good grades?

3. Do you think students who do well in academic study will be become successful later in life?

4. Do you think rich people are successful?

5. Do you think it is easier for people to become successful nowadays than in the past?

6. What do people need to sacrifice in order to be successful?

7. Describe a person who has interesting ideas or opinions.
   You should say:
    + Who this person is
    + How you knew him/her
    + What this person does
    + And explain why you think his/her ideas or opinions are interesting

## Part 3

1. How do inventors and philosophers come up with new ideas?

2. Do you think children should have their own opinions?

3. Why do children often have similar opinions to their parents?

4. Do you think teachers influence students’ opinions?

5. Describe someone you know who has recently moved to a new place.
   You should say:
    + Who he/she is
    + What the new place is like
    + Why he/she moved to this place
    + And explain whether his or her move has a positive impact on you

## Part 3

1. Is it a positive thing for young people to live by themselves?

2. Apart from cooking, are there any other skills that people need to learn if they live on their own?

3. What kinds of people tend to live by themselves?

4. Why do some young people keep moving?

5. What’s the difference between living alone and living with roommates?
   Describe someone living in your area who often helps others.
   You should say:
    + What he/she is like
    + How he/she helps others
    + Why his/her help is beneficial
    + And explain why he/she often helps others

## Part 3

1. What can children help parents with?

2. Should children be taught to help others?

3. Should students do community services?

4. Why do some people do volunteer work all over the world?

5. Describe a popular person.
   You should say:
    + Who he/she is
    + What he/she has done
    + Why he/she is popular
    + And explain how you feel about him/her

## Part 3

1. Why do some students want to become popular?

2. What kinds of students are more popular at school?

3. Do you think a good teacher should be popular?

4. Why are some celebrities not popular?

5. Describe a person you know who is from a different culture.
   You should say:
    + Who he/she is
    + Where he/she is from
    + How you knew him/her
    + And explain how you feel about this person

## Part 3

1. How can we get to know people from different cultures better?

2. What are the advantages and disadvantages of cultural diversity?

3. How can traditional culture and other cultures coexist?

## Object:（具体）

1. Describe a photo that makes you happy.

2. Describe a painting/drawing you enjoy looking at.

3. Describe a piece of clothing you wear most often.

4. Describe an invention that is useful in your daily life.

5. Describe a book you have read many times.

6. Describe a piece of technology you own that you feel difficult to use.

7. Describe a photo that makes you happy.
   You should say:
    + What the photo is like
    + When and where you took this photo
    + How often you look at this picture
    + And explain why this photo makes you happy

## Part 3

1. Do people take more photos now than before?

2. Do you think equipment is important to photography?

3. Do you think being a professional photographer is a good job?

4. Describe a drawing/painting you enjoy looking at.
   You should say:
    + When you first saw this drawing/painting
    + What the drawing/painting was about
    + Who drew/painted it
    + And explain how you feel about this drawing/painting

## Part 3

1. Why do some people keep a painting for a long time?

2. Do you think it is important for children to learn painting at school?

3. Why do some people attach importance to home decoration?

4. Do you think the objects we use in our daily lives should be beautifully designed?

5. Describe a piece of clothing you wear most often.
   You should say:
    + What it is
    + How often you wear it
    + What it is like
    + And explain why you enjoy wearing it

## 14 / 33 Part 3

1. When do people wear formal clothes?

2. What is the difference between the clothes of the elderly and the young people in China?

3. When do people in your country wear traditional clothes?

4. What are the advantages and disadvantages of wearing a uniform at work and school?

5. Describe an invention that is useful in your daily life.
   You should say:
    + What the invention is
    + What it can do
    + How popular it is
    + And explain whether it is difficult or easy to use

## Part 3

1. What qualities do inventors have?

2. Do all inventions bring benefits to our world?

3. Do you think people who haven’t been educated in school can invent things?

4. Do you think only scientists can invent new things?

5. What inventions do you think should be improved?

6. Are there any other inventions that make the world better?

7. Describe a book you have read many times.
   You should say:
    + What the book is about
    + How often you read this book
    + Why you have read it for many times
    + And explain what effect this book had on you

## Part 3

1. What kinds of books do children like to read?

2. What can children learn from books?

3. Do people prefer e-books or paper books in your country?

4. Do you think parents reading stories to their children is necessary?

5. Do you think reading books can make people happier?

6. Do you think e-books will make people read more?

7. Describe a piece of technology you own that you feel difficult to use.
   You should say:
    + What it is
    + When you got it
    + How often you use it
    + And explain how you feel about it

## Part 3

1. What technological products do people currently use?

2. Why do big companies introduce new products frequently?

3. Why are people so keen on buying iPhones even though they haven’t changed much?

4. Does the development of technology affect the way we study?

## Object:（抽象）

1. Describe a rule that is important in your school or at work.

2. Describe one area of science (medicine, physics and etc.) that sounds interesting to you.

3. Describe a good advertisement that you think is useful.

4. Describe a historical period you want to know more about.

5. Describe a movie you watched recently that you felt disappointed about.

6. Describe a job you are interested in.

7. Describe a sport you enjoy watching.

8. Describe a water sport you would like to try in the future.

9. Describe a piece of good news that you heard about someone you know well.

10. Describe a rule that is important in your school or at work.
    You should say:
    + What the rule is about
    + What will happen if people break the rule
    + Why you think it is important
    + And explain how you feel about the rule

## Part 3

1. What rules should people follow when using public transport?

2. Do parents in China ask their children to obey rules?

3. What rules should children follow at home?

4. What are the reasons that make people break rules?

5. Describe one area of science (medicine, physics and etc.) that sounds interesting to you.
   You should say:
    + What it is
    + When you knew it
    + How you knew it
    + And explain why it sounds interesting to you

## Part 3

1. Why do some children not like learning science subjects at school?

2. Should children be encouraged to learn science?

3. Should people be encouraged to learn science after graduation?

4. How do you get to know about scientific news?

5. Should scientists explain the research process to the public?

6. Describe a good advertisement that you think is useful.
   You should say:
    + Where you can see it
    + What it is about
    + Why you think it is useful
    + And explain how you feel about it

## Part 3

1. How do you feel about online advertising?

2. Are there any great online advertisements?

3. Why does buying new things make people happy?

4. Do people still watch useless advertisements nowadays?

5. Do you think there is too much advertising in your daily life?

6. Describe a historical period you want to know more about.
   You should say:
    + What it is
    + How you know about this period of history
    + What you are interested in
    + And explain why you want to know more about this period

## Part 3

1. How do children learn history?

2. Do you think everyone should know about history of their own country?

3. Do you think it is hard to protect historical buildings?

4. What are the differences between learning history from books and from videos?

5. Who should be responsible for protecting historical buildings?

6. Describe a movie you watched recently that you felt disappointed about.
   You should say:
    + What this film is about
    + Who you watched it with
    + Why you decided to watch it
    + And explain why you felt disappointed about it

## Part 3

1. Do people read movie reviews before watching movies?

2. Are historical films popular in your country?

3. Do you think films with famous actors or actresses would be more popular?

4. What kinds of films are popular in your country?

5. Describe a job you are interested in.
   You should say:
    + What it is
    + When you heard about this job for the first time
    + What qualities it requires
    + And explain why you are interested in this job

## Part 3

1. What kinds of jobs are popular in your country?

2. Do people in your country do the same job throughout their whole life?

3. What kinds of people do low-salary jobs?

4. Do you think universities should arrange classes for students to teach them how to find jobs?

5. If they do, what kinds of skills should students learn in such classes?

6. When do you think is the right time for young people to start making plans for their future careers?

7. Describe a sport you enjoy watching.
   You should say:
    + What it is
    + When you watched it for the first time
    + Who you often watch it with
    + And explain how you feel when you watch it

## Part 3

1. What type of exercise do people in your country often do?

2. Do you think children should receive education in school about keeping fit and healthy?

3. What can be done to make children into doing sports?

4. What’s the difference between watching sports on TV and watching it live?

5. Describe a water sport you would like to try in the future.
   You should say:
    + What it is
    + What you need to do this sport
    + Why you want to learn this sport
    + And explain whether it is difficult or easy to learn this sport

## Part 3

1. What are the advantages and disadvantages of water transport?

2. What are the popular water sports in your country?

3. Do you think schools should teach children how to swim?

4. Are there many people in your country often go diving?

5. Describe a piece of good news that you heard about someone you know well.
   You should say:
    + What it was
    + When you heard it
    + How you knew it
    + And explain how you felt about it

## Part 3

1. Is it good to share something on social media?
2. Should the media only publish good news?
3. What kind of good news do people often share in the community?

## Place:

1. Describe a place in your country that you think is interesting.

2. Describe a park or garden in your city.

3. Describe a beautiful city you have visited.

4. Describe a new shop that recently opened in your city/town.

5. Describe a house that you would like to have.

6. Describe a place you went to where there are a lot of people.

7. Describe a place far away from your home and you want to visit it in the future.

8. Describe a place in your country that you think is interesting.
   You should say：
    + Where it is
    + How you knew it
    + What special features it has
    + And explain you are interested in it

## Part 3

1. Do people in different regions of your country have different personalities?

2. Do you think a great tourist city is a good place for living?

3. Why do some people believe that small towns are more suitable for living than big cities?

4. Do you think only youngsters like trying new things? What about people of your parents’ age?

5. Describe a park or garden in your city.
   You should say:
    + Where it is
    + When you often go there
    + What you often do there
    + And explain what it is like

## Part 3

1. Do you think people should keep parks and gardens clean?

2. Are public parks or gardens popular among people who live in cities?

3. Why do some people like growing vegetables?

4. Do you think people of all ages like to go to parks?

5. What do old people like to do in parks?

6. Describe a beautiful city you have visited.
   You should say:
    + Where the city is
    + When you went there
    + Why you went there
    + And explain why it is beautiful

## Part 3

1. Why do some like to visit historical cities?


2. Do you think it is hard to protect historical buildings?

3. Who should be responsible for protecting historical buildings?

4. Do you think those tall buildings in cities look similar?

5. Describe a new shop that recently opened in your city/town.
   You should say:
    + Where the shop is
    + What it sells
    + What kinds of people usually go to this shop
    + And explain how successful you think it will be in the future

## Part 3

1. What kinds of shops are popular in your city?

2. Why do young people enjoy shopping in boutiques?

3. Do you think location is the key factor that determines the volume of customers?

4. Are there any methods to improve the popularity of shops?

5. Describe a house that you would like to have.
   You should say:
    + What it is like
    + Where it would be
    + Why you would like to have such place
    + And explain how you feel about the place

## Part 3

1. What’s the difference between an apartment and a house?

2. What is the most common architectural style of buildings in China?

3. What difficulties do people have living in the city?

4. What can be done to reduce the stress of city life?

5. Describe a place you went to where there are a lot of people.
   You should say:
    + Where it is
    + Who you went there with
    + Why there were many people
    + And explain how you felt when staying with those people

## Part 3

1. What kinds of places are often crowded with many people?

2. Do you think young people often wait patiently in crowded places?

3. What kinds of people do not like to go to crowded places?

4. What are the advantages of living on an upper floor?

5. What do you think of the phenomenon of people queuing up in restaurants for more than an hour?

6. Describe a place far away from your home and you want to visit it in the future.
   You should say:
    + Where you would like to go
    + When you would like to go
    + Who you want to go with
    + And explain why you want to visit the place

西安,历史

## Part 3

1. Does tourism have to do with cultural exchange?

2. Why do some people think it is enjoyable to stay at home during holidays?

3. What do you think is the most desirable place for people to visit during holidays?

4. Do young people usually travel with friends or alone?

## Event:

1. Describe a time when you had a problem with using the computer.

2. Describe a time when you waited a long time for a nice thing.

3. Describe a time when something changed your life in a good way.

4. Describe an activity you did that made you feel tired.

5. Describe a party you enjoyed.

6. Describe a bad service you received in a restaurant or shop.

7. Describe a piece of good advice that you gave to someone.

8. Describe a difficult task that you completed at work/study and you felt proud of the experience.

1. Describe an exciting activity you did with others.

2. Describe a long car journey you went on.

3. Describe a happy experience in your childhood.

4. Describe an occasion when you lost your way.

5. Describe an occasion when you spent time with a young child.

6. Describe a game you played in your childhood.

7. Describe a time when you had to talk to a group of people.

8. Describe an exciting adventure you would like to go on.

描述一个你想去的令人兴奋的冒险

9. Describe an occasion when you got incorrect information.

10. Describe a traditional celebration in your country that you enjoy.

11. Describe a time when you saved money to buy an expensive gift for others.

12. Describe an important decision you made in life.

13. Describe an activity you enjoyed in your free time when you were young.

14. Describe a time when you had a problem with using the computer.
    You should say:
    + What the problem was
    + When and where it happened
    + How you solved the problem
    + And explain how you felt about this experience

## Part 3

1. Where can people learn to use electronic devices?

2. Do you think social media platforms like YouTube are good places for people to learn to use electronic devices?


3. Do you think current electronic devices are better than those in the past?

设计的更好，更方便

4. Why do people often have problems when using new products?

5. Describe a time when you waited a long time for a nice thing.
   You should say:
    + When it happened
    + How long you waited
    + What you waited for
    + And explain why you waited a long time

## Part 3

1. On what occasions do people usually need to wait?

2. Why do most children have difficulty in waiting for a long time?

3. Do you think waiting is harder now?

4. What can parents do to help children become more patient?

5. Describe a time when something changed your life in a good way.
   You should say:
    + When it happened
    + Where it happened
    + What the thing was
    + And explain how it changed your life in a good way

## Part 3

1. How do you adapt to changes in life?

2. Who can adapt better to changes, children or adults?

3. Why do people quit and change jobs?

4. Do children like changing schools?

5. What are the disadvantages when people keep making changes?

6. Describe an activity you did that made you feel tired.
   You should say:
    + When it happened
    + Where it took place
    + What the activity was
    + And explain why it made you feel tired

## Part 3

1. When do people usually feel tired?

2. What’s the difference between tiredness caused by doing sport and study/work?

3. How much free time do you think office workers should have?

4. Do you think it is easier for people to feel tired today than 40 years ago?

5. Describe a party you enjoyed.
   You should say:
    + When you went to this party
    + Where the party was held
    + What kind of party it was
    + And explain why you enjoyed this party

## Part 3

1. What will you do if you are disturbed by your neighbour’s party?

2. Why do some people like parties while others don’t?

3. Do you think music and dance are a must at a party?

4. Do people in China like to hold parties at home or in public places?

5. What are the differences between party at home and those held in public places?

6. Describe a bad service you received in a restaurant or shop.
   You should say:
    + When and where it happened
    + What happened
    + How you dealt with it
    + And explain how you felt about the experience

## Part 3

1. Why do bad services happen?

2. How do most people respond to bad services?

3. Do you most restaurants and shops provide better services than in the past?

4. Describe a piece of good advice that you gave to someone.
   You should say:
    + Who you gave the advice to
    + What the advice was
    + Why you gave the advice
    + And explain how he/she followed your advice

## Part 3

1. What advice should children get from their parents?

2. Why do some children not follow their parents’ advice?

3. Do you think it is necessary for us to listen to friends’ advice?

4. What professions often give people advice?

5. Describe a difficult task that you completed at work/study and you felt proud of the experience.
   You should say:
    + What the task was
    + How you completed it
    + Why the task was difficult
    + And explain why you were proud of the completion of this task

## Part 3

1. What are the things that usually make people proud?

Achieving one's goals, or doing something successful, such as getting into a good school or finding a good job, will make people feel proud.

2. What challenges do most young people face today?



3. How do young people handle difficult tasks?

4. What kinds of rewards do people receive from work?

5. Describe an exciting activity you did with others.
   You should say:
    + When it happened
    + What the activity was
    + Who you did it with
    + And explain why this activity was exciting

## Part 3

1. What exciting activities do young people like to do?

2. What are the advantages of doing such activities?

3. Why do old people not like to try dangerous and challenging activities?

4. Describe a long car journey you went on.
   You should say:
    + Where you went
    + What you did there
    + Who you went there with
    + And explain why you went on that journey by car

## Part 3

1. What benefit does public transport bring to the society?

2. Is it too late for people to get driving licenses at 18 years old?

3. Do you think the government should make it a rule for people to use public transport?

4. What jobs require people to be good at driving?

5. Describe a happy experience in your childhood.
   You should say:
    + What it was about
    + Who you were with
    + What you did
    + And explain how you felt about it

## Part 3

1. Why do some people have better memory than others?

2. What kinds of things do people prefer to remember?

3. Why do some people remember more of their childhood than others?

4. What can people do to improve their memory?

5. Describe an occasion when you lost your way.
   You should say:
    + Where you were
    + What happened
    + How you felt about it
    + And explain how you found your way

## Part 3

1. How can people find their way when they are lost?

2. Why do some people get lost more easily than others?

3. Are paper maps still necessary?

4. Do you think technology makes it harder for people find their way?

5. Describe an occasion when you spent time with a young child.
   You should say:
    + Who the child is
    + Where you spent time with this child
    + What you did together
    + And how you felt about it

## Part 3

1. Do you think children should have a lot of toys?

2. Do you think there are too many rules for children to follow?

3. Do you think it’s good for parents to help their children choose friends?

4. How can parents help children make decisions?

5. At what age should children start to make decisions?

6. Describe a game you played in your childhood.
   You should say:
    + What the game was
    + Where you played it
    + Who you played it with
    + And explain how you felt about the game

## Part 3

1. Compared with computer games, do you think children today still like to play traditional games?

2. Do young people like to play alone or with others?

3. Is winning important in games?

4. What can you learn from games?

5. Describe a time when you had to talk to a group of people.
   You should say:
    + When it happened
    + Who you talked to
    + Why you gave this talk
    + And explain why you had to give this talk

## Part 3

1. What benefits does the Internet bring to communication? What about the disadvantages?

2. Which one is better, being a speaker or a listener?

3. How important it is to be a good listener in communication?

4. What qualities do people need to speak in public?

5. What kinds of people often give speeches?

6. Describe an exciting adventure you would like to go on.
   You should say:
    + Where you want to go
    + Who you want to go there with
    + When you want to do this
    + And explain why you want to go on this adventure

## Part 3

1. Do you think children are more interested in adventurous stories?

2. Why are some children addicted to adventurous games?

3. Why do some people prefer to read adventure books rather than actually take an adventure?

4. Does experiencing adventures broaden people’s horizons?

5. Describe an occasion when you got incorrect information.
   You should say:
    + Why you need this information
    + How you got it
    + How you found it was incorrect
    + And how you felt about this experience

## Part 3

1. What kinds of websites do you use to acquire information?

2. Why do some people not believe information online?

3. What is the influence of incorrect information?

4. What kinds of information are often spread through text messages and emails?

5. What kinds of jobs require staff to spread information to others?

6. Describe a traditional celebration you enjoy in your country that you enjoy.
   You should say:
    + What it is
    + What people do in this celebration
    + Who you celebrate it with
    + And explain why you enjoy it

## Part 3

1. Are there any festivals that have already disappeared in your country?

Chongyang Festival

2. Why do you think some traditional festivals are still celebrated by people (while others already disappeared)?

3. Why should children learn about traditions?

4. Are there any special music and food involved when people celebrate traditional festivals?

Spring Festival

dumpling

Dragon Boat Festival

zongzi

5. Describe a time when you saved money to buy an expensive gift for others.
   You should say:
    + What it was
    + Why you wanted to buy this gift
    + How long you saved money for it
    + And explain how you felt when you bought the gift

## Part 3

1. Are you good at saving money?


2. Do you think it is hard for people to save money nowadays?

3. Do you think children should have pocket money?

4. What do young people save money for?

5. Describe an important decision you made in life.
   You should say:
    + What the decision was
    + Why you made this decision
    + How you made this decision
    + And explain why this decision was important

## Part 3

1. What important decisions do young people need to make after graduation?

2. Who can children turn to for help when making decisions?

3. Do you think children sometimes have to make important decisions?

4. Do you think advertisements influence our decisions on shopping?

5. Describe an activity you enjoyed in your free time when you were young.
   You should say:
    + What it was
    + Where you did it
    + Who you did it with
    + And explain why you enjoyed it

## Part 3

1. Is it important to take a break during work or study?

2. Are there more activities for young people to do now than 20 years ago?

3. Do adults and children have enough time for leisure activities nowadays?

4. What types of exercise do people in your country often do?




